Descrição retirada do documento RFC 959 (https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc959.txt)

 MINIMUM IMPLEMENTATION

      In order to make FTP workable without needless error messages, the
      following minimum implementation is required for all servers:

         TYPE - ASCII Non-print
         MODE - Stream
         STRUCTURE - File, Record
         COMMANDS - USER, QUIT, PORT,
                    TYPE, MODE, STRU,
                      for the default values
                    RETR, STOR,
                    NOOP.

      The default values for transfer parameters are:

         TYPE - ASCII Non-print
         MODE - Stream
         STRU - File

      All hosts must accept the above as the standard defaults.



      USER NAME (USER)

         The argument field is a Telnet string identifying the user.
         The user identification is that which is required by the
         server for access to its file system.  This command will
         normally be the first command transmitted by the user after
         the control connections are made (some servers may require
         this).  Additional identification information in the form of
         a password and/or an account command may also be required by
         some servers.  Servers may allow a new USER command to be
         entered at any point in order to change the access control
         and/or accounting information.  This has the effect of
         flushing any user, password, and account information already
         supplied and beginning the login sequence again.  All
         transfer parameters are unchanged and any file transfer in
         progress is completed under the old access control
         parameters.


      LOGOUT (QUIT)

         This command terminates a USER and if file transfer is not
         in progress, the server closes the control connection.  If
         file transfer is in progress, the connection will remain
         open for result response and the server will then close it.
         If the user-process is transferring files for several USERs
         but does not wish to close and then reopen connections for
         each, then the REIN command should be used instead of QUIT.

         An unexpected close on the control connection will cause the
         server to take the effective action of an abort (ABOR) and a
         logout (QUIT).

  TRANSFER PARAMETER COMMANDS

      All data transfer parameters have default values, and the
      commands specifying data transfer parameters are required only
      if the default parameter values are to be changed.  The default
      value is the last specified value, or if no value has been
      specified, the standard default value is as stated here.  This
      implies that the server must "remember" the applicable default
      values.  The commands may be in any order except that they must
      precede the FTP service request.  The following commands
      specify data transfer parameters:

      DATA PORT (PORT)

         The argument is a HOST-PORT specification for the data port
         to be used in data connection.  There are defaults for both
         the user and server data ports, and under normal
         circumstances this command and its reply are not needed.  If
         this command is used, the argument is the concatenation of a
         32-bit internet host address and a 16-bit TCP port address.
         This address information is broken into 8-bit fields and the
         value of each field is transmitted as a decimal number (in
         character string representation).  The fields are separated
         by commas.  A port command would be:

            PORT h1,h2,h3,h4,p1,p2

         where h1 is the high order 8 bits of the internet host
         address.

      REPRESENTATION TYPE (TYPE)

         The argument specifies the representation type as described
         in the Section on Data Representation and Storage.  Several
         types take a second parameter.  The first parameter is
         denoted by a single Telnet character, as is the second
         Format parameter for ASCII and EBCDIC; the second parameter
         for local byte is a decimal integer to indicate Bytesize.
         The parameters are separated by a <SP> (Space, ASCII code
         32).

         The following codes are assigned for type:

                      \    /
            A - ASCII |    | N - Non-print
                      |-><-| T - Telnet format effectors
            E - EBCDIC|    | C - Carriage Control (ASA)
                      /    \
            I - Image

            L <byte size> - Local byte Byte size

         The default representation type is ASCII Non-print.  If the
         Format parameter is changed, and later just the first
         argument is changed, Format then returns to the Non-print
         default.

      FILE STRUCTURE (STRU)

         The argument is a single Telnet character code specifying
         file structure described in the Section on Data
         Representation and Storage.

         The following codes are assigned for structure:

            F - File (no record structure)
            R - Record structure
            P - Page structure

         The default structure is File.

      TRANSFER MODE (MODE)

         The argument is a single Telnet character code specifying
         the data transfer modes described in the Section on
         Transmission Modes.

         The following codes are assigned for transfer modes:

            S - Stream
            B - Block
            C - Compressed

         The default transfer mode is Stream.

 FTP SERVICE COMMANDS

      The FTP service commands define the file transfer or the file
      system function requested by the user.  The argument of an FTP
      service command will normally be a pathname.  The syntax of
      pathnames must conform to server site conventions (with
      standard defaults applicable), and the language conventions of
      the control connection.  The suggested default handling is to
      use the last specified device, directory or file name, or the
      standard default defined for local users.  The commands may be
      in any order except that a "rename from" command must be
      followed by a "rename to" command and the restart command must
      be followed by the interrupted service command (e.g., STOR or
      RETR).  The data, when transferred in response to FTP service
      commands, shall always be sent over the data connection, except
      for certain informative replies.  The following commands
      specify FTP service requests:

      RETRIEVE (RETR)

         This command causes the server-DTP to transfer a copy of the
         file, specified in the pathname, to the server- or user-DTP
         at the other end of the data connection.  The status and
         contents of the file at the server site shall be unaffected.

      STORE (STOR)

         This command causes the server-DTP to accept the data
         transferred via the data connection and to store the data as
         a file at the server site.  If the file specified in the
         pathname exists at the server site, then its contents shall
         be replaced by the data being transferred.  A new file is
         created at the server site if the file specified in the
         pathname does not already exist.

      NOOP (NOOP)

         This command does not affect any parameters or previously
         entered commands. It specifies no action other than that the
         server send an OK reply.
